24308572
BACKGROUND	A better understanding of interrelations of exercise and improved eating , and their psychosocial correlates of self-efficacy , mood , and self-regulation , may be useful for the architecture of improved weight loss treatments .
BACKGROUND	Theory-based research within field settings , with samples possessing high probabilities of health risks , might enable rapid application of useful findings .
METHODS	Adult volunteers with severe obesity ( body mass index [ BMI ] 35-50 kg/m ; age = 43.0 9.5 y ; 83 % female ) were randomly assigned to six monthly cognitive-behavioral exercise support sessions paired with either group-based nutrition education ( n = 145 ) or cognitive behavioral methods applied to improved eating ( n = 149 ) .
METHODS	After specification of mediation models using a bias-corrected bootstrapping procedure , a series of reciprocal effects analyses assessed : a ) the reciprocal effects of changes in exercise and fruit and vegetable intake , resulting from the treatments , b ) the reciprocal effects of changes in the three psychosocial variables tested ( i.e. self-efficacy , mood , and self-regulation ) and fruit and vegetable change , resulting from change in exercise volume , and c ) the reciprocal effects of changes in the three psychosocial variables and exercise change , resulting from change in fruit and vegetable intake .
RESULTS	Mediation analyses suggested a reciprocal effect between changes in exercise volume and fruit and vegetable intake .
RESULTS	After inclusion of psychosocial variables , also found were reciprocal effects between change in fruit and vegetable intake and change in mood , self-efficacy for controlled eating , and self-regulation for eating ; and change in exercise volume and change in mood and exercise-related self-regulation .
CONCLUSIONS	Findings had implications for behavioral weight-loss theory and treatment .
CONCLUSIONS	Specifically , results suggested that treatments should focus upon , and leverage , the transfer effects from each of the primary weight-loss behaviors ( exercise and healthy eating ) to the other .
CONCLUSIONS	Findings on psychosocial correlates of these behavioral processes may also have practical applications .

