24796059
OBJECTIVE	To compare the difference in the efficacy on cervical type of cervical spondylosis ( CS ) between the combined treatment of sword-like needle and chiropractic spinal manipulation ( the combined therapy ) and the simple chiropractic spinal manipulation .
METHODS	One hundred and thirty-eight cases of cervical type of CS were randomized into a combined therapy group ( 76 cases ) and a simple chiropractic spinal manipulation group ( 62 cases ) .
METHODS	In the combined therapy group , the sword-like needle therapy was applied at Fengchi ( GB 20 ) , Tianzhu ( BL 10 ) and Jiaji ( EX-B 2 ) C3-C5 .
METHODS	The chiropractic spinal manipulation was used in combination .
METHODS	In the chiropractic spinal manipulation group , the simple chiropractic spinal manipulation was adopted .
METHODS	The treatment was given once every other day in the two groups , 10 days made one session .
METHODS	One session of treatment was required .
METHODS	Visual analog scale ( VAS ) score was observed before and after treatment in the two groups and the efficacies were compared between the two groups .
RESULTS	VAS score after treatment was reduced obviously as compared with that before treatment in the patients of the two groups ( both P < 0.01 ) and VAS score after treatment in the combined therapy group was lower than that in the simple chiropractic spinal manipulation group ( 1.50 + / - 0.58 vs 1.87 + / -1.05 , P < 0.01 ) .
RESULTS	In the combined therapy group , 48 cases were cured , 20 cases remarkably effective , 8 cases improved and 0 case failed .
RESULTS	In the chiropractic spinal manipulation group , 30 cases were cured , 16 cases remarkably effective , 15 cases improved and 1 case failed .
RESULTS	The overall efficacy in the combined therapy group was better than that in the chiropractic spinal manipulation ( P < 0.05 ) .
CONCLUSIONS	The sword-like needle therapy combined with chiropractic spinal manipulation relieve effectively pain in cervical type of CS and the efficacy is superior to the simple chiropractic spinal manipulation .

