25320199
BACKGROUND	The surgical results of treating thoracolumbar and lumbar burst fractures were reported to be comparable between patients with and without fusion in an intermediate-term follow-up .
BACKGROUND	To our knowledge , no prior report has compared the results of fusion and non-fusion with long-term follow-up .
METHODS	This study was designed to provide long-term evaluation of patients with a burst fracture of the thoracolumbar and lumbar spine treated with short-segment fixation who were randomly assigned to a fusion or non-fusion group .
METHODS	Patients older than sixty years of age at the time of injury and those who were lost to follow-up were excluded .
METHODS	Functional outcomes were evaluated using the Greenough Low-Back Outcome Score and the visual analog scale for back pain .
METHODS	Radiographic outcomes were focused on the vertebral body height of the injured vertebra , the kyphotic angle , and the regional segmental motion .
RESULTS	Twenty-two patients were enrolled in the non-fusion group , and twenty-four patients were enrolled in the fusion group .
RESULTS	The average follow-up period was 134 months ( range , 121 to 161 months ) .
RESULTS	The average preoperative kyphotic angle was 16.4 for the non-fusion group and 19.5 for the fusion group .
RESULTS	The average postoperative kyphotic angle was 1.5 for the non-fusion group and 4.0 for the fusion group .
RESULTS	At the time of the latest follow-up , the average kyphotic angle was 13.8 for the non-fusion group and 14.7 for the fusion group .
RESULTS	The average kyphotic angle between the two groups was similar at all follow-up times .
RESULTS	A progressive decrease of the kyphotic angle was significant ( p < 0.05 ) with time , regardless of fusion .
RESULTS	The radiographic outcomes were similar between these two groups at all follow-up times , as were functional outcomes .
RESULTS	More patients in the non-fusion group underwent additional surgery to remove implants .
RESULTS	Regional segmental motion was preserved in the non-fusion group , with a mean motion ( and standard deviation ) of 4.2 1.9 .
CONCLUSIONS	The long-term results of short segmental fixation with and without fusion for burst fractures of the thoracolumbar and lumbar spine were comparable .
CONCLUSIONS	Regional segmental motion could be preserved without fusion , and bone graft donor site complications could be eliminated .
METHODS	Therapeutic Level II .
METHODS	See Instructions for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence .

