25458326
OBJECTIVE	To assess the beneficial effects of the components of lifestyle intervention in reducing incidence of diabetes in Asian Indian men with impaired glucose tolerance ( IGT ) in India .
METHODS	This analysis was based on a 2 year prospective , randomized controlled primary prevention trial in a cohort of Asian Indian men with IGT ( n = 537 ) ( Clinical Trial No : NCT00819455 ) .
METHODS	Intervention and control groups were given standard care advice at baseline .
METHODS	Additionally , the intervention group received frequent , mobile phone based text message reminders on healthy lifestyle principles .
METHODS	Dietary intake and physical activity habits were recorded by validated questionnaires .
METHODS	The lifestyle goals were : reductions in consumption of carbohydrates , oil , portion size and body mass index of at least 1 unit ( 1 kg/m ( 2 ) ) from baseline and maintenance of good physical activity .
METHODS	The association between diabetes and lifestyle goals achieved was assessed using multiple logistic regression analyses .
METHODS	Changes in insulin sensitivity ( Matsuda 's insulin sensitivity index ) and oral disposition index during the follow-up were assessed .
RESULTS	At the end of the study , 123 ( 23.8 % ) participants developed diabetes .
RESULTS	The mean lifestyle score was higher in the intervention group compared with control ( 2.59 1.13 vs. 2.28 1.17 ; P = 0.002 ) .
RESULTS	Among the 5 lifestyle variables , significant improvements in the 3 dietary goal were seen with intervention .
RESULTS	Concomitant improvement in insulin sensitivity and oral disposition index was noted .
RESULTS	Higher lifestyle score was associated with lower risk of developing diabetes ( odds ratio : 0.54 [ 95 % CI : 0.44-0 .70 ] ; P < 0.0001 ) .
CONCLUSIONS	Beneficial effects of intervention were associated with increased compliance to lifestyle goals .
CONCLUSIONS	The plausible mechanism is through improvement in insulin sensitivity and beta cell preservation .

