25650142
OBJECTIVE	In the present study , we applied two incisionless suture techniques for otoplasty : Haytoglu et al. 's modification of incisionless otoplasty technique and Fritsch 's incisionless otoplasty technique for correction of prominent ears .
METHODS	In this prospective study , 60 patients with prominent ears were included in the study .
METHODS	In Group 1 , 55 ears of 30 patients ( 25 bilateral and 5 unilateral ) were operated with Haytoglu et al. 's modification of incisionless otoplasty technique .
METHODS	In Group 2 , 57 ears of 30 patients ( 27 bilateral and 3 unilateral ) were operated with Fritsch 's incisionless otoplasty technique .
METHODS	For comparison of two methods , auriculocephalic distances were measured at three levels which were level 1 ( the most superior point of the auricle ) , level 2 ( the midpoint of the auricle ) and level 3 ( level of the lobule ) pre-operatively ( preop ) ; and measurements were repeated at the end of the surgery ( PO ( 0-day ) ) , 1st month ( PO ( 1-Mo ) ) and 6th month ( PO ( 6-Mo ) ) after the surgery , in both groups .
METHODS	Patient satisfaction was evaluated using a visual analog scale ( VAS ) .
METHODS	Moreover , Global Aesthetic Improvement Scale ( GAIS ) was rated by an independent , non-participating plastic surgeon at 6 months after the surgery .
RESULTS	Operation time was 15.95.6 min in Group 1 ( Haytoglu et al. 's ) and 194.7 min in Group 2 ( Fritsch ) .
RESULTS	Hematoma , infection , bleeding , keloid scar formation , sharp edges or irregularities of the cartilage were not observed in any group .
RESULTS	Suture extrusion was detected in 14.03 % of Group 1 and 16.1 % of Group 2 .
RESULTS	No statistically significant difference was observed between auriculocephalic distances at levels 1-3 of groups at preop , PO ( 0-day ) , PO ( 1-Mo ) and PO ( 6-Mo ) separately .
RESULTS	Similarly , difference in auriculocephalic distances ( preop values-PO ( 6-Mo ) values ) was not detected as statistically significant in Groups 1 and 2 at three levels .
RESULTS	In both techniques , No statistically significant difference was observed in patient satisfaction at 6th months after the operation which was measured using Visual Analogue Scale ( VAS ) on 0 to 100 scales .
RESULTS	According to GAIS , the patients were rated as 92.9 % `` improved '' and 7.1 % `` no change '' in Group 1 ; as 94.6 % `` improved '' and 5.4 % `` no change '' in Group 2 .
CONCLUSIONS	Due to the similar results , Haytoglu et al. 's and Fritsch 's incisionless otoplasty techniques are good options in the treatment of prominent ears , especially in pediatric patients with isolated inadequate development of antihelical ridge , and with soft auricular cartilage .

